## Overview

OpenChat has built in configurable logging. The user can configure the log level and
the log destination.

## OpenChat SDK Logging

### Configuring the log level

There are two types of logs in the OpenChat sdk. The first is the logs of the
blockchain transactions and the consensus events.
The second is logs generated by the OpenChat sdk, things like emitted events.

Set the following in your `openchat.yaml` to set logging levels.

```
OpenChatLogLevel: debug # sets log level for events emitted from the OpenChat sdk
BlockchainLogLevel: error # sets log level for the blockchain logs.
```

Defaults for the `OpenChatLogLevel` and `BlockchainLogLevel` are `info` and `error` respectively.

### Configuring the log destination

Currently a file target is supported for the OpenChat logs.

To log to stderr, specify the destination as `file://-`

## Contract logging

Configurations like log level and destination are seperate for contracts. These
are set using environment variables.
Example:
`CONTRACT_LOG_LEVEL=debug CONTRACT_LOG_DESTINATION="file://-" $OpenChat_EXE run`

This will set the contract log level to `debug` and the destination to stderr.
The default for log level and destination are `info` and `file://contract.log` respectively.

### Logging from the contract

The contract context has a pre-configured logger that can be used for structured logging.
For example

```
ctx.Logger().Info("Created account", "owner", owner, "address", addr)
```

will generate a log line like

```
ts=2018-05-13T02:06:49.817229589Z module=openchat level=info _msg="Created account" owner=godbole4 address="\ufffd8\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd$Y+H\ufffd\u0012\u000c]\u001a\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd"
```

Available methods on the context logger are `Error`, `Warn`, `Info`, and `Debug`
